DOC 2126: Writing a CorDapp using a template tutorials rewrite (#483)
corda/corda-docs: content/en/docs/corda-os/4.8/modify-the-flow.md

    weight: 1030
tags:
- flow
title: Modify the flow
---

# Modify the flow

A flow encodes a sequence of steps that a node can perform to achieve a specific ledger update. Installing new flows

> on a node allows the node to handle new business processes. The flow that you define will allow a node to issue an

Author: applied the present tense

*subflows*.

## Output

> The following code presents how your template should look like after performing all the steps described below:

Author: Updated

> The following code presents how your template should look like after performing all the steps described below:

Author: Updated

{{< /tabs >}}

## Define FlowLogic

1. Depending whether you are working with Java or Kotlin template, perform one of the following steps:

   * For Java, open `Initiator.java` from `workflows/src/main/java/com/template/flows/Initiator.java`.

>    * For Kotlin, open `Flows.kt` from `workflows/src/main/kotlin/com/template/flows/Flows.kt`.

Author: updated

2. If you’re following along in Java, rename `Initiator.java` to `IOUFlow.java`.

3. Define your `IOUFlow`.

{{< note >}}

All flows must subclass `FlowLogic`. You then define the steps taken by the flow by overriding `FlowLogic.call`.

{{< /note >}}

> Let’s walk through the above code step-by-step.

Author: Updated

You’ve defined your own `FlowLogic` subclass that overrides `FlowLogic.call`. `FlowLogic.call` has a return type
that must match the type parameter passed to `FlowLogic` - this type is returned by running the flow.

`FlowLogic` subclasses can optionally have constructor parameters, which can be used as arguments to
`FlowLogic.call`. In your case, you have two:

> * `iouValue`, which is the value of the IOU being issued.

Author: updated

> * `otherParty`, the IOU’s borrower (the node running the flow is the lender).

Author: added a real-life example to the use-case section

> * `otherParty`, the IOU’s borrower (the node running the flow is the lender).

Author: na

issuing the `IOUState` onto a ledger.

### Choose a notary

Every transaction requires a notary to prevent double spends and serve as a timestamping authority. The first thing you must
do in your flow is retrieve the notary from the node’s `ServiceHub`.

* Use `ServiceHub.networkMapCache` to get information about the other nodes on the network and the services that they offer.

{{< note >}}
Whenever you need information within a flow - whether it’s about your own node’s identity, the node’s local storage,
or the rest of the network - you generally obtain it via the node’s `ServiceHub`.
{{< /note >}}

### Build the transaction

Build your transaction proposal in two steps:

1. Create the transaction’s components.
2. Add these components to a transaction builder.

> #### Transaction items

Author: updated

the transaction to be valid, the lender is required to sign the transaction.

#### Create a transaction builder

> To actually build the proposed transaction, you need a `TransactionBuilder`. This is a mutable transaction class to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To build the proposed transaction, you need a `TransactionBuilder`. This is a mutable transaction class to
```

Author: updated

> which you can add inputs, outputs, commands, and any other items the transaction needs. You create a

Author: updated

> real constraints in the next tutorial.

Author: updated

`SignedTransaction` is an object that pairs a transaction with a list of signatures over that transaction.

### Finalise the transaction

> You now have a valid signed transaction. All that’s left to do is to have the notary sign it, have that recorded
> locally, and then send it to all the relevant parties. Once that happens the transaction will become a permanent part of the

Reviewer: I didn't feel like the sentence flowed. Minor amendment suggested. 
```suggestion
You now have a valid signed transaction. All that’s left to do is have the notary sign it, record that
locally, and then send it to all the relevant parties. The transaction then becomes a permanent part of the
```

Author: updated

{{< /tabs >}}

As with the `IOUFlow`, your `IOUFlowResponder` flow is a `FlowLogic` subclass where we’ve overridden `FlowLogic.call`.

The flow is annotated with `InitiatedBy(IOUFlow.class)`, which means that your node will invoke

> `IOUFlowResponder.call` when it receives a message from a instance of `IOUFlow` running on another node. This message

Reviewer 2: I can't add a comment in the last line, but maybe at the end of the Progress so far section we should add a link to the next page with the link text "test our CorDapp"? I think most of the other pages do this. I guess it should just be consistent throughout, one way or the other.

Author: Added the link.
